Hi there. Why don't you come on
in and take a look at my space?
This is my bedroom, but it's where I do most of my work,  and where I store all my work.
All my work, when it's not being shown in a gallery  is always underneath the bed.
So this is where my work is stored when it's not showing.
It's kind of makeshift,
but when you live  in a small place
and you don't have a studio,  it's just kind of
the way things have to be.
I'd always been interested  in how people interact
with technology,  and the social aspects
that I was interested in  kind of coincided with these
visual things that I was doing
developed into this connection and isolation  that technology brings us.
So down here, this is where I show my work
when I have people over.  So I lay it out, pull this stuff
out from underneath the bed
This is my first body of work.  It was titled "The Illuminati,"
it was my undergrad thesis work.  It consists of 10 pieces.
It's gotten around now.  It's in a couple
museum collections,  and it's been published fairly
thoroughly through Europe  and some places in the U.S.
Each piece is 30-by-40 inches,
and it's face-mounted to 1/4-inch piece of Plexiglas.
The initial reason that
they were mounted on Plex was,  I had an old
first generation iPod,  and it actually had a clear
piece of maybe Plexiglas,
some sort of resin over the top of it.  And since the subject matter
was dealing with
youth and technology,  and technology is so glossy
and kind of shiny  and slippery
and candy-colored,  I felt that the Plex
really kind of related to that.
I never really had this
experience when I was young,
inside this technology,  but I think that not growing up
with it in my hand all the time,
I think it gave me  a little bit of a perspective
from the outside.  On these long drives
that I would take  down through southern Minnesota,
there were lots of farms that were just lit up,  and usually I was
driving in the late night,  and there were kind of
these little islands,  these little pieces of light
scattered throughout the countryside.  I began to notice that same
type of effect with people,  that same way the
light would reach out  and kind of just touch the
people that were so close to it,  but that it never really
extended beyond that.  (man) ¶¶ Well, they say, you know it's progress. ¶¶
(piano plays softly)  ¶¶ Well, they say
you know it's truth. ¶¶
(Evan)
So The Illuminati, the work is paradoxical
in the fact that it kind of  has this subject matter
that's both connected,  and it's both isolated
at the same time.  The light that
they're kind of bathed in,  it kind of gives the
viewer this impression
that maybe they're gleaning something,  or that they're being--
I use the term "illuminated"
as in, you are receiving
some sort of information,  you're making some
sort of connection  that's not very tangible.
And at the same time, it's such an isolating practice
because it's something that
really you have to do alone,
you interact with the screen alone.  You don't interact
with a group of people.  The images, both they have
this beautiful light
that makes you think  that there's this grace
to these devices.  And at the same time,
they're completely surrounded
by this darkness and this cold isolation.  I always want the viewer to
leave thinking about something.  I want them to be thinking.
That's really the hope for any work that I make
is that the viewer takes something away from it.  The viewer takes something
with them from the experience
that they have with your work.